# S3 - Simple Storage Service
###### 03<sup>rd</sup> May 2026 Puneet Gavri

**AWS S3** is highly scalable, secure and durable **object storage**.  
It allows us to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere over the internet.






### S3 Features
1. Scalability - 
2. Highly Available -  
3. Durable - 
4. Object as a while is stored. Data is not divided (as happens in Block Storage)
5. Regional Service - Data is stored in a specific region.
6. Mounting not needed (can be accessed via the browser)


Buckets
1. Bucket Type
    1. General Purpose
    2. Directory - low latency
2. Bucket Name - had to be unique across the world earlier, not any more.
    1. Global namespace - 
    2. Account regional namespace (recommended) -- AWS appends accountid in the suffix (so AWS take s care of uniqueness
3. Object Ownership
    1. ACLs Disabled (recommended)
    2. ACls Enables
4. Block Public Access settings for ht bucket
    1. Block all public access (so that not everyone can access)
5. Version - maintains versions of the files. Whole object is stored in versions, not delta. Delete marker gets created when we delete an object when versioning is on. This allows us to recover deleted object. How to do this? delete the delete marker. How to delete object permanently, delete all versions (including delete marker?)
6. Tags
7. Encryption 
    1. Server Side encryption with Amazon S3 managed keys (SSE-S3) - managed by AWS. This is default 
    2. Server Side encryption with Amazon KMS (SSE-KMS). We need to choose KMS key.
    3. Dual - Layer encryption with Amazon KMS (DSSE-KMS)
8. Bucket Key
    1. Enable (cheaper)
    2. Disable  
Thi
9. Advanced Settings
    1. Object Lock (create once read multiple times). Cannot be edited.

Pricing
1. We pay for accessing  the data 
2. We pay for storing the data.

Object Properties
1. Name,
2. Size
3. Type,
4. Permissions 
    1. ACL - Access Control List (not recommended). ACL is at two levels
        1. Bucket Level
        2. Object Level 
    If we use ACLs, we will need to provide access at bucket level and then also at each object level. Another problem is that the permission here is too generic, like read, write, etc. If we compare this with IAM policies, where we have too many granular options. Hence not recommended 
    2. Bucket Policy (recommended). This is IAM Policy. We can use AWS Policy Generator. We get fine grain control (as against read / write we saw in ACL).
5. S3 URI (Code access?)
6. Object URL (browser access)
7. ARN
8. Owner


### S3 Storage Class
We don't access all objects at same frequency. So we can classify objects in diff storage class, this helps save money on non frequently used objects

1. Standard
    1. Default
    2. High Availability Auto replicated in 3 or more AZs
    3. Used for frequent access
2. Standard-Infrequent Access - Accessing once a month
3. One Zone-Infrequent Access - Accessing once a month and stored in single AZ (not High Available). Use this for non critical infrequent access.
4. This is a long list.
5. Intelligent Tiering 


### Metrics

### Lifecycle Configuration
Create rules such that, 30 days after creation, move to some tier, after 60 days more to some other tier and so on.
FIrst access bring to Standard tier.
We can also decide what to do for versioned files (not latest)

### We can host a static website using S3
Use Edit Static Website Hosting

### Replication Rules

### S3 can now be mounted to EC2 instance