5th April 2025 -- IAM
	Authentication
	Authorization
	
	User, Groups, Policy
	
	AWS User
		Root
		IAM
			Limitted acces (as assigned by Root). 
			How to create?
				IAM --> Users --> Create User and provide following
					User Name
					Access to Management Console (if not given, user is forced to use CLI or programatically)
					Password  (Autogenerated or Custom)
					Groups, policy (etc, to be looked at later)
			What do we get?
				Console URL,  UserName and Password, 12 digit AccountId
			Note -- This is the same AWS account as root user but its just another user. Billing is on the same AWS account.
			
	Policy -- is a bundle of permissions
		Two Types -- AWS Managed Policy and Customer Managed Policy
			AWS Managed Policies -- Grant read access to ECE, Grant full Access to EC2. What if we want something more specific that AWS standard policy does not offer? e.g. Full EC2 access except some critical EC2 instances. We create Custom Policy
		How to give Permissions to User? Three ways
			Create a Group and assign permissions to that group and andd User to Group. This is reusable
			Copy Permission from some other User. Resuable but restricted. If new permission is given to the original user, that wont be granted to other users
			Attach Policies Directly. Maintain permissions individually for each user (difficult to maintain)
	
	When we create IAM user, we get a userName and Password, where do we store this? So this is an overhead, specially, if we have thousands of Users
	
	ARN -- ARN is Amazon Resource Name. Every Resource has a Name. 
	
	Service Vs Resource -- We use EC2 Service to create an EC2 Resource. Every EC2 resource (instance will have a unique ARN). Note every Resource has an ARN. E.g. EC2 instance, EBS storage, EFS Strorage, UserName, Policy, Security Group, etc, etc (every resource will have and ARN).
		ARN Naming format -- arn:aws:Service:Region:AWSAccount: (come back)
							 arn:aws:EC2:
							 arn:aws:IAM:: (this is global to region is missing)
	How to create a Policy
	IAM --> Policies --> Create Policy
		Effect (Allow / Deny)
		Manual Action (Choose Service e.f. All EC2, All EBs, etc)
		List
			Permissions (Describe Instances, etc)
		Read
			Permissions ()
		Write
			Permissions (Start Instance, Stop Instance, Terminate Instances)
		Resources
			All / Specific ARNs
	NOTE -- If we give contradiction permissions in policy. e.g. Allow full access to all EC2 and then later Deny access to 2 specific Instances, DENY will get the preference. So basically allow all except two.
	
	All Policies are written in JSON. We can create via the UI which is easier but we can also do this programatically using AWS services to apply updated JSON.
	
	Policy Editor, we can also directly update policy json via UI
	Policy JSON	
		Version
		List of Statements
			Statement1
				Sid - unique statementID
				Effect -- allow / Deny
				Action -- List of permissions e.g. 
					ec2:DescribeInstance
					ec2:TerminateInstance
				Resources -- * for all or ARNs
			Statement2
			
	Similarly, we can create a group and assign users to group.
	
	Create MFA for new IAM user.
	
11th APril 2026 -- IAM Continuation

Revision
	User Types
		Root (Admin)
		IAM (created by Root or other IAM if IAM has permission to create User)
	Policy Types
		AWS Manages Policy (Fixed)
		Customer Managed Policies (Custom)
		
Todays Topics
	Role
	AWS CLI
	
	Role
		Trust Policy -- Who can take this Role?
		Permission Policy -- What permissions will be granted to the people belonging to this Role.
	
	Q1. How to grant access to other AWS account holders to manage resources on our AWS account? As per current knowledge, create an IAM user for account holder.
	
	Q2. Lets say we have one AWS account in ur ORG and we want 100 Users to have access to it. One way is to create IAM for all users. But this comes with overhead to manage and ship credentials. Also to delete access when user leaves org. How to solve this?
		
	Lets solve Q1 and Q2
	Create a new Role and define
		Trust Policy -- Other AWS account holder's Id will be added in Trust Policy.
		Permission Policy -- What this Role can do, Start-Stop Ec2
		Validity (12 minutes to 12 hours)
		Note -- Roles are temporary. Internally Security Token Service is used. Once the Role is created, other AWS account holder will have to send request to assume this role which goes to STS to access that role, and STS grants temporary token (it checks trust policy defined for the role).
		Once granted, user can access / assume the role.
	
	Trust Policy Options
		AWS Service
			Create policy for EC2 service
		AWS AccountId
		Web Identity
			Login via FB/Google, etc
		SAML 2.0 Federation
		Custom Trust Policy
		
	Note -- When a User is granted a Role does not mean the User gets those permissions by default. He will have to switch the Role by supplying the Account ID and Role Name and ask STS to grant ticket and then user can access till the time his ticket is valid. And then once tasks are performed, User can switch back to original user. So this is not like a traditional role given to the user. This is like User assuming a Role temporarily and then switching back to its original Role / access
		
		
	Install AWS CLI on personal PC
	Commands - https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/
		aws login
		
	EC2 Instance --> Actions --> Security --> Modify IAM Role
		We can create a Role for our EC2 and run app under that role (STS ticket to get renewd upon expiry). All access needed by the app must be managed under that role.
		
	Question
	Lets say we have an EC2 instance running multiple Containers (app component1, app component2, etc).
	Each component may need diff set of accesses and lets say we have created multiple roles.
	How would we assume roles in individual containers?
	
	IAM Done